we begin at gaza's main hospital and
reports that officials there have dug a
mass grave to bury scores of bodies with
refrigeration out for days morg staff
say that they had no choice Israeli
forces are said to have surrounded the
alifa complex Israel says that Hamas
militants have their main command center
underneath the hospital doctors have
been left with no electricity and very
little fuel but the World Health
Organization says that doctors are still
doing all they can to care for their
patients filmed just a few days ago this
video apparently shot inside gaza's
alifa Hospital gives a sense of just how
many people have been crowded inside and
according to medical staff at the
facility dozens of newborns have now
been removed from incubators and placed
together on beds in the
open so they are literally in in a very
bad situation where you slow kill them
unless someone interferes to adjust or
to improve their situation but these are
very critical kind of cases where you
have to be uh very sensitive in dealing
with them you have to take care of each
of them in a very special way but
currently they are all in open space
they are all with each others with no
infection control
measures Israel's ground offensive has
been moving ever closer to the gates of
Al for hospital in recent days with the
US president joining the growing
international calls for restraint well
uh you know I have not been reluctant in
expressing my concern what's going on um
and is my hope and expectation that uh
there will be
uh
less intrusive action relative to the
hospital the hospital must be protected
Israel's military has accused us Hamas
of using hospitals to hide command
centers and weapons and it's now
released footage of what it says is a
children's hospital in Gaza the tunnel
is Led down more than 20 M down the
robot found a door a door that is
bulletproof it's a it's explosives proof
alleging Hamas had held hostages in
rooms beneath the hospital now we are
now in the area of the basement of the
hospital along with a cach of weapons
and explosives the hospital I want you
to
understand this kind of
gear is a gear for a major fight these
are
explosives these are vest vest with
explosives yeah it's a body vest for
terrorists to explode on forces among
hospitals among
patients hospitals are given special
protection during times of War
but Israel argues that hamas's use of
medical facilities as cover overrides
any legal safeguards as it intensifies
its ground offensive inside the Gaza
[Music]
Strip well I'm joined on the phone now
by Dr Maran abusada he's head of surgery
at alifa hospital in Gaza doctor we
appreciate you taking the time to talk
with us again today we have reports of
mass Graves being dug at alifa Hospital
what can you tell us about that H yes
yes the people the medical staff here
decid to bury the dead bodies here
because because around more than 100
dead bodies are in the open space and
they are a source of outbreaks and
infection so we succeeded this morning
to open a big hole as a mass grave and
we bur till now 82 dead bodies in that
grave so and tomorrow we'll continue the
work still there are huge number of dead
bodies are outside in the open space and
some of them they are in the
refrigerator but unfortunately the
refrigerator is not functioning because
of lack of electricity yeah and dror the
the World Health Organization it says
that your hospital is still somehow
functioning um help our viewers
understand how in the world is it
possible for you to to doctor people in
such conditions yeah okay we are we are
Prov
here the minimal care for our patients
yes we don't have electricity we have a
Darkness yes but we are depending on
solar energy so we can Prov provide some
solar energy today we performed some
surgeon yesterday we performed 15
surgery for our patient without oxygen
what is called in total IV anesthesia
and using the air bumping the air normal
air air not the oxygenated air for the
patient especially for ad adult it is a
risky to give it for the children and to
the new but for the adults it is
acceptable in this condition this is not
the ideal condition what we working it
but we can provide this and also for the
babies we still are keeping these babies
in the open space it's not put
atmosphere to to raise and to take a
care of this things but okay this is
what we have because we are we are run
out of oxygen and also we run out of
electricity so we are keeping in one big
theater in our uh our theat operating
theater what what about the we hear that
um there are dozens of babies whose
lives are at risk what are you doing to
to keep those babies alive I mean if you
don't have electricity I'm assuming you
don't have incubators for the babies no
yes we are putting in a bed we are
putting a heat blanket sheet beneath
them and we are covering them with a
Sullivan paper and we are heating the
room inside in the the room the
atmosphere of the room is hot but we are
afraid sometimes we run we have
electricity for especially for
designated electricity for this room so
to keep the environment in this room hot
and not to have not these babies to have
a hypothermic and so and we feed them
and this is under the control of
consultant in neolog the head of
department and we have staff to take a
care this is the this is the only
solution but the best solution for that
is to provide the fuel and to repair the
oxygen generator and we can place this
patient these babies in our inal IU
really we are fortuned to have incubator
but we cannot replace them in this room
because we don't have the oxygen for
them and so on okay doctor do you know
has anyone been able to leave have they
evacuated from the hospital or is it
simply too dangerous for anyone to leave
the grounds of
alifa no as a person as a medical person
I cannot leave this hospital and to live
to to live this Hospital 50 patient in
this Hospital aart of them we 600
injured we have around 45 patients
within the stage R Al Fara who are in in
hemodialysis they have to have
hemodialysis unfortunately for the days
they did not perform any kind of
hemodialysis and they are going to die
if we not perform this is kind of hemo
dialis for them they are a resent they
are captured inside the hospital they
cannot move anywhere so this is the
issue for this people Dr Mar abusada
head of surgery at alifa hospital in
Gaza doctor we appreciate you taking the
time to talk with us tonight thank you
thank you
byebye we're from Gaza to Israel I'm
joined Now by Sami so he's a
correspondent covering the story forest
from Jerusalem tonight Sami US President
Joe Biden he has urged Israel to protect
civilians at alifa hospital and to use
and I'm quoting here less intrusive
tactics is that likely to influence
Israel's milit AR
operations I can tell you that the
Americans are also suggesting that there
will be an evacuation from the uh shifa
hospital that will be done by a third
party that means that there will be some
International force that will come and
solve this uh problem because Israel is
determined and the Israeli military is
determined to take over the
Hospital IDF spokesperson and Minister
of Defense theyve all been saying that
the shifa hospital and under the shifa
hospital is where you have Hamas
Fighters and they're talking about the
network of tunnels that exist in the
Gaza Strip that are used by Hamas and
that are linked together with the shifa
hospital and they View shifa Hospital as
a military Target and we just heard the
the other day the Israeli foreign
minister saying that it believes that
there will be International pressure on
Israel in two or three weeks that means
that until now Israel does not really
feel that there is pressure on it and
and Timmy do we have any idea who that
third party would be that you
mentioned no I mean this is just a kind
of like a new new suggestion that is
being bounced but we're talking about a
party that is is clearly not Israeli or
Palestinian
International uh maybe the World Health
Organization but I think that at this
stage Israel is not too keen on having
any kind of foreign intervention and it
wants to have a full control of what's
happening on the ground and Sammy what
about the hostages being held in Gaza
what is what's an update on efforts to
release them or to get them
released well there's a a cabinet
meeting uh and this cabinet is have to
make a serious decisions as to the kind
of deal whether Israel will go ahead and
agree to the kind of deal that's being
discussed with the moderation of katar
of course also the the Egyptians are
also involved we have the head of the
shinb the Israeli Security Services is
now in Egypt but it seems that Kat is
playing the leading role in these
negotiations there different kinds of
formulas according to one formula the
first wave of hostages that will be
released will be a children so all the
miners from Gaza will be released and
Israel will also release Palestinian
miners in Israeli prisons and then we're
talking about the release of women and
elderly people and of course the
question will be Israel what will it
return and there's also a debate on how
long will the ceas fire be whether it
will be five days or a shorter period
which is what Israel would like to see
journalist Sami zoko with the latest
from Jerusalem tonight Sammy thank you